I CALLED FOR ME TO APPEAL FOR
MONEY FOR
PAUL DARLING HERE
ROBERT HART HERE HUGH FLAT
DAVEN AND STAFF AND KEVIN COX
AND FOR CITY STAFF MICHAEL
LUMIRE HERE MYSELF
DEBORAH WILLIAMS, WE HAVE A
QUORUM.
>> WE THANK YOU, SENATOR.
YEAH, THERE WE GO.
>> OK, FIRST ITEM ON THE AGENDA
TO ROLL CALL IS PUBLIC
COMMENTARY NOT SEEING ANY
PUBLIC COMMENTARY CAN MOVE TO
THE NEXT ITEM ON THE AGENDA
WHICH IS APPROVAL OF THE AGENDA
AND MOTION TO MOVE THE AGENDA
NO MORE SECOND MOST IN FAVOR I
NEXT ITEM ON THE AGENDA IS THE
APPROVAL OF THE MINUTES FROM
THE AUGUST 15, 2012 FOUR
MEETING ANY COMMENTS ABOUT THE
DRAFT MINUTES THERE IS NOT
GOING TO BE A MOTION TO APPROVE
THOSE OF THOSE IN FAVOR.
I WAS PASS WERE NOTHING APPEALS
ACTIONS AND SHOW CAUSE HEARING
ON THE FIRST ITEM ON THE AGENDA
FOR THAT IS BEEBER 24 ZERO ZERO
THREE BURNS FOR 14 22 MCGREGOR
LANE ANN ARBOR MICHIGAN FOR ONE
OF FIVE.
AND SO HOW THE APPEAL PROCESS
WORKS WILL HAVE THE STAFF MAKE
A REPORT OF THEIR FINDINGS OR
HOW THE APPLICANT COME UP AND
PRESENT THEIR REQUEST FOR A
VARIANCE INDICATING WHAT
THEY'RE ASKING FOR AND IF IT'S
FOR WHICH ONE OF THE THREE
REASONS THE BETTER APPLICABLE
THE CODE DOESN'T APPLY
SOMETHING EQUALLY OR BETTER OR
THE INTERPRETATION OF THE
CODE IS INCORRECT AND THEN
WE'LL HAVE APPLICATIONS
QUESTIONS FROM THE APPLICANT,
FROM THE BOARD TO THE APPLICANT
AND THEN WE'LL MAKE A MOTION.
THAT'S HOW THE PROCESS WORKS.
SO FIRST WE CAN GET A REPORT
FROM STAFF YEAH THE PROPERTY AT
FOURTEEN TWENTY TWO MCGREGOR
IT'S A SINGLE FAMILY HOUSE
HOUSE WAS BUILT IN NINETEEN
SIXTY THREE.
A BUILDING PERMIT WAS ISSUED
NOVEMBER 14TH OF TWENTY TWENTY
THREE FOR WORK DESCRIBED AS A
BATHROOM INNOVATION REMOVE AND
REPLACE ALL FIXTURES AND
FINISHED REMOVE SHORT PARTITION
REPLACED BATHROOM WINDOW AND
FINAL INSPECTION FOR PLUMBING
PERMIT PUMAR TWENTY THREE DASH
TWO THREE ONE SEVEN.
IT WAS NOTED THAT THE LAST
LAVATORY THE LEFT LAVATORY DOES
NOT MEET FIXTURE CLEARANCES PER
SECTION TWENTY SEVEN OR FIVE
OF THE TWENTY FIFTEEN MICHIGAN
PLUMBING CODE WATER CLOSET
LABORATORY OR BADDAY SHALL NOT
BE CLOSER THAN 15 INCHES FROM
ITS CENTER TO ANY SIDE WHILE
STAFF RECOMMENDS THIS
APPLICATION BE DENIED AS IT
DOESN'T MEET THE STANDARDS FOR
APPROVAL, THE CODE HAS NOT BEEN
MISINTERPRETED.
THE PROVISIONS OF THE CODE DO
APPLY IN THE EXISTING
CONDITIONS ARE NOT EQUAL OR
BETTER THAN THE
CODE REQUIREMENT.
THE STANDARDS SET FORTH IN
SECTION TWENTY SEVEN OR FIVE
ARE FOR THE USABILITY FOR
PEOPLE OF DIFFERENT SIZES AND
ABILITIES.
THESE MINIMUM CLEARANCES ARE
ALSO ESTABLISHED TO ALLOW
ACCESSIBILITY, ACCESSIBILITY
AND AID IN AGING IN PLACE WHILE
THE VIOLATION OF THE CODE MAY
BE ACCEPTABLE TO THE PROPERTY
OWNER NOW IT MAY NOT BE AS THEY
AGE THEIR CIRCUMSTANCES CHANGE
OR TO THE NEXT OWNER THE
APPLICANT STATES THE SINK TO
THE LEFT WAS PLANNED TO HAVE A
FIFTEEN CENTER LINE BUT BECAUSE
OF A LAYOUT MISTAKE THE
DIMENSION WAS FINISHED AT 13
INCHES SECTION TWENTY SEVEN
FIVE FIVE SAYS WATER CLOSETS
LABORATORY LABORATORIES AND
DAYS SHALL BE SHALL NOT BE SET
CLOSER THAN 15 INCHES FROM ITS
CENTER TO ANY SIDEWALK
PARTITION OR VANITY OR CLOSER
THAN 30 INCHES CENTER OF CENTER
BETWEEN ADJACENT FIXTURES.
THE BASIS OF THIS APPEAL IS
THAT THE INSTALLATION IS EQUAL
TO A BETTER FORM
OF CONSTRUCTION.
IF THIS WERE AN EQUAL FORM
OF CONSTRUCTION THE CODE WOULD
REQUIRE 13 INCHES AND NOT
FIFTEEN AND A CLEARANCE
REDUCTION IS NOT BETTER THAN
THE CODE REQUIREMENT THINKING
CAN COME UP NOW AND PRESENT
THEIR APPEAL.
>> STATE YOUR NAME YOU CAN SIGN
IN THERE THIS A YOU SIGN OK BUT
IS BRUCE CURTIS MY COMPANY IS
WASHTENAW WHAT RIGHTS WE ARE
LOCAL HOME REMODELING FIRM
SPECIALIZING IN KITCHENS AND
BATHS.
WE'VE BEEN IN BUSINESS FOR
FORTY YEARS IN ANN ARBOR
RENOVATING HOMES.
WE TAKE VERY SERIOUSLY OUR
RESPONSIBILITY UPON BUILDING
PERMITS ON ALL OF OUR PROJECTS.
WE'RE DILIGENT ABOUT THAT AND I
KNOW MANY CONTRACTORS TO DONATE
ON PROJECTS LIKE BATHROOMS.
OUR OUR SITUATION ON THIS CASE
WAS PROBABLY POSSIBLY A
COMBINATION OF A MEASURING
MISTAKE AND CERTAINLY A LAYOUT
MISTAKE ON SITE THE SINK WAS
PLACED A LITTLE TOO CLOSE TO
THE WALL.
WE DIDN'T PICK IT UP RIGHT
AWAY.
JOHN MOVED LONG AND IT WAS WELL
ALONG BEFORE WE REALIZED THE
MISTAKE WAS PRETTY HARD TO
REVERSE AT THAT POINT WE DIDN'T
THINK WE WERE GOING TO HAVE A
MAJOR PROBLEM WHEN CUSTOMERS
ARE EXTREMELY HAPPY WITH THE
PROJECT.
MY CUSTOMER AND WORK IS HERE ON
ZOOME WITH US TODAY.
SO THE ONLY THING I CAN DO
REALLY I MEAN IT'S GOING TO BE
COSTLY AND SOMEWHAT COMPLICATED
TO FIX IT.
THE CUSTOMERS ARE HAPPY WITH IT
.
IT IS AND THEY DON'T REALLY
WANT US BACK.
SO THAT'S OUR SITUATION I'M
ASKING FOR BASICALLY A LITTLE
MERCY BECAUSE OF A MISTAKE THAT
WAS MADE.
WE WE UNDERSTAND THAT WE ARE
NOT BEATING THE CODE BUT THIS
IS NOT A MATTER OF JUST
SWAPPING OUT.
A COUPLE OF THINGS CAN BE DONE
IN A COUPLE OF DAYS.
IT'S GOING TO TAKE A MULTIPLE
WEEKS TO FIX AND A LOT OF A LOT
OF DISPLACEMENT OF THE
CUSTOMERS.
SO THAT'S WHY WE CAME TO THE
BUILDING BOARD HOPING THAT THE
OTHER PIECE OF THAT IS THAT
ACTUALLY WHEN I LOOKED AT MY
OLD DRAWINGS AND DRAWINGS THAT
YOU HAVE COPIES OF MY EXISTING
PLAN THE EXISTING SINK THAT WAS
THERE IN THAT LOCATION WAS ALSO
TOO CLOSE TO THE WALL.
NOW I DIDN'T NOTICE THAT
INITIALLY BUT IT WAS AT 13
INCHES SO AND WE ALSO HAVE A
WORKING SINK THAT IS TOTALLY
LEGIT.
SO YOU KNOW AND SO IT'S NOT
LIKE SOMEONE CAN'T USE THE
OTHER SINK.
YOU KNOW, IF IT'S THE ONLY SINK
IN THE BATHROOM I WOULD
UNDERSTAND A LITTLE BIT BETTER.
BUT THAT'S OUR SITUATION AND I
DON'T KNOW WHAT WILL HAPPEN IF
YOU TURN US DOWN
.
I DON'T KNOW WHAT MY CUSTOMERS
ARE GOING TO DO.
ARE THEY GOING TO LET ME BACK
THE HOUSE?
I DON'T KNOW WHAT HAPPENS TO MY
LICENSE OR TO ME FOR NOT ABLE
TO FIX THIS.
I HAVE NO IDEA.
WE'VE NEVER HAD A PROBLEM.
WE'VE NEVER HAD WE'VE NEVER HAD
A CONFLICT WITH THE BUILDING
DEPARTMENT.
WE HAVE NO MARKS ON OUR
LICENSE.
THE STATE NOTHING.
AND AND THIS IS KIND OF I'M
PRETTY WHACKED OUT ABOUT THIS
PROCESS.
YOU KNOW, WE KEEP OUR NOSE
CLEAN AND WE ARE IN THIS
SITUATION I DON'T KNOW WHAT TO
DO AND I YEAH, ABSOLUTELY.
>> OH HI.
I'M ANOKHI, MY HUSBAND.
I OWN THE PROPERTY AND I JUST
ECHO WHAT BRUCE IS SAYING LIKE
THE BATHROOM PERFECTLY
FUNCTIONAL.
MY HUSBAND IS A REFERENCE LIKE
DIFFERENT PEOPLE OF DIFFERENT
SIZES.
I MEAN HE'S A VERY TALL LARGE
PERSON AND BOTH OF US MANAGE TO
USE THE BATHROOM FINE.
OUR CHILDREN USE THE BATHROOM
FINE.
WE ARE ALREADY PEOPLE
OF DIFFERENT SIZES FUNCTIONING
AND USING THE BATHROOM.
WE PLAN TO STAY IN THE HOUSE
FOREVER.
WE HAVE NO ISSUE WITH IT FOR US
HAVING TO REDO IT TO SIMPLY ADD
TWO INCHES TO BETWEEN THE SINK
IN THE WALL IS JUST INCREDIBLY
DISRUPTIVE TO OUR BUSY FAMILY
LIFE COMPARED TO REALLY NO LIKE
THERE ARE NO DOWNSIDES TO TO
THE WAY IT IS NOW IS ONE
HUNDRED PER CENT FUNCTIONAL.
SO THAT'S JUST OUR OUR
PERSPECTIVE TO IT REALLY IT
SEEMS IRRELEVANT TO ME IT'S NOT
A SAFETY ISSUE.
IT'S NOT A YOU KNOW SOMETHING'S
GOING TO LIGHT ON FIRE OR FLOOD
OR WHATEVER BECAUSE IT'S THE
SMALL IT'S THANK YOU.
DOES THE BOARD HAVE ANY
QUESTIONS FOR THE APPLICANT?
SO THE 13 INCHES IS REALLY
DERIVATIVE OF THE FACT THAT THE
EXISTING PLUMBING ROOFING WAS
THERE.
>> IT JUST HAPPENED.
NO, WE MOVED SO NO WE WE WE WE
THE PLUMBING ROOF OH YEAH.
IT WAS WHAT HAPPENED WAS THE IT
WAS A TIGHT LAYOUT AND THERE I
HAD MEASURED THE TOILET AT 15
INCHES OFF THE WALL AND THE
OTHER END OF THE BATHROOM THERE
WAS A WALL THERE BEFORE WE TOOK
THE WALL OUT.
I PERSONALLY MIGHT HAVE MADE A
MAJOR MISTAKE IN AND MAYBE NOT
GETTING THE RIGHT WALL
THICKNESS OR ANYTHING BUT I PUT
I DID THE DRAWINGS WE HAD THREE
INCH FILLER STRIP AND A TWENTY
FOUR INCH CABINETS CENTERING
THE SINK THERE WOULD HAVE GIVEN
US 15 INCHES.
MY CARPENTER WAS WORRIED ABOUT
THE SPACE FOR THE TOILET ON THE
OTHER END HE CUT THE FILLER
STRIP WITHOUT TELLING ME AND SO
WE WOUND 13 INCHES IN EXCHANGE
FOR HAVING THE RIGHT SPACE FOR
THE TOILET AND WE DIDN'T CATCH
THE MISTAKE RIGHT AWAY UNTIL
THE COUNTERTOPS WENT AND SO
THAT'S BASICALLY WHAT HAPPENED
AND IT WAS A YOU KNOW, AS A
DESIGNER MY FAULT.
I SHOULD HAVE MADE THE
CABINETRY A LITTLE BIT
NARROWER.
I PROBABLY MISSED AN EXTRA
SOMETHING IN THERE.
I DON'T KNOW BUT THAT'S THE WAY
IT UNFOLDED.
OH, TO PUT HIS BATHROOM REALLY
ONLY ONE LAVATORY QUIET LIKE
THE OTHER ONE IS SOMETHING
SUPPLEMENTAL FIXTURE.
IT'S NOT FOR
ANY OTHER
QUESTIONS FOR THE APPLICANT
EMOTION THEY MOVED THAT IN THE
CASE OF BVA TWENTY FOUR DASH
ZERO ZERO THREE THE APPEAL
OF THE BUILDING WHICH WAS A
DECISION THAT REDUCED FIXTURE
CLEARANCE THE SINKING FORTUNE
TWENTY TWO AND THE RARELY
GRANTED RELIEF FROM S.P. TO
SEVEN OH FIVE OF THE 2015
MICHIGAN RESIDENTIAL GROWTH AND
THAT THE BUILDING BOARD
OF APPEALS REVERSES THE
BUILDING OFFICIALS DECISION FOR
THE REASONS THAT THE APPLICANT
HAS PROPOSED AN EQUAL OR BETTER
FORM OF CONSTRUCTION BUT ONLY
IN SO FAR AS OF THE TWO
LABORATORIES PROVIDED THE ONE
MINIMALLY REQUIRED MEETS THE
STANDARD OF THE
CODE CONDITIONALLY IN GRANTING
THIS APPROVAL THE APPEAL SHALL
NOT FORM THE BASIS FOR A
PRECEDENT AND FUTURE SIMILAR
APPEALS
.
ANY QUESTIONS OR COMMENTS ON
THE MOTION WOULD BE REALLY
VARIANCE.
I WAS AGAINST NO.
SO IT PASSES FOR GRANTS GRANTED
.
THANK YOU.
YOU'LL HEAR FROM THE BILLING
DEPARTMENT IN A PERIOD OF TIME
BY TOMORROW WE WILL STILL NEED
TO GET OUR FINAL BUILDING
INSPECTION CORRECT?
YEAH OK.
YOU'LL NEED TO SCHEDULE A
PLUMBING INSPECTION BECAUSE
THAT'S WHERE THE THE INSPECTION
FAILED THE PLUMBING IN IN ORDER
TO GET YOUR FINAL BUILDING THE
PLUMBING WILL HAVE TO BE PASSED
.
OK, ALL RIGHT.
THANK YOU.
I REALLY APPRECIATE IT.
OK, THANK YOU SO MUCH.
THANK YOU
.
THAT IS THE LAST REFERENCE FOR
TODAY'S MEETING.
NEXT ITEM THE AGENDA IS ON
BUSINESS AND OLD BUSINESS
NOTHING NEW BUSINESS OR IN YOUR
BUSINESS ANYTHING FOR NEXT
MONTH'S MEETING COMING IN.
YOU DO NOTHING.
OKAY, CAN I HAVE A MOTION TO
ADJOURN THE MOVE SO I CAN LIVE
HERE?
I WE ARE ADJOURNED.